I'm Alan. I'm Greg. And we're back for episode 52. 52 of AB Testing. We have now gotten to an episode that is
older than you. Yes, finally we're older than me. Should we just dive right in? I don't know how to
approach this subject. Oh wait a minute. Actually, well we start with the tangent. Welcome to AB
Testing. This is your first episode. This is normal. Hey, so remind me you're 52. So are you a Gen X?
I am not 52. I am 51. 51 nevertheless. I am a Gen X. I'm on the borderline. I don't think,
I don't feel like, I don't feel nor act like a boomer. Nor I'm, I would say closer to Gen X,
but I really, I don't identify with labels. I'm my own person. Well that's why it's called Gen X.
With my own unique values and responsibilities and contributions to the society.
So I don't, I don't really appreciate you trying to label me. I heard a fact yesterday that next year
is predicted to be the peak of the Gen X population. The maximum Gen X's that will ever be alive
will only be alive next year. So I'm going to start dying. I'm actually, I've started dying.
Am I going to die? We're all going to start dying next year. Am I part of the Deadpool?
Yeah, for sure. That's great. I'm pretty excited about that. Yeah, well I mean it's interesting,
right? We just this last holiday, we saw George Michael die. We saw Carrie Dyer die. Like big
flares that were key to our generation growing up. Yeah, I think I saw, I think I saw a Rogue One,
if I recall, the day she died. Oh yeah. We did our road trip. My team took us out for
a road trip. We did our road trip to Bozeman, Montana. Look at Bozeman for our three listeners
in Bozeman. I guarantee there are no listeners in Bozeman, but we drove to Bozeman and back,
no problemo. But we stopped, we were in Missoula of all places on the way back, spending the night
and thinking, maybe we should go see a movie. Oh look, Rogue One's playing. Oh look, it's
playing in 3D IMAX. Oh look, we're going. Wait, wait, Missoula had a 3D IMAX? Yeah. Wow.
That's what I said. Like I was meant to go, meant to go. Nice. So we did that, it was fun. And also
on that trip, so what do you do on road trips? Do you take road trips with your family in the car?
Not as much as we used to since my daughter was born, but yeah. Do you just all sit and sing
along in the car? What do you do? Sometimes, like there was one trip when my boys were a lot younger
where we basically listened to the soundtrack for Polar Express on repeat. Oh god. About that.
Saw and Hot Chocolate is fantastic. Maybe I will die in 27, maybe I'll die right in this episode.
So we're on this road trip. Nowadays, everyone's got screens and so I turn on whatever friggin'
podcasts and they are jellin' out. Yeah, the Tesla as a podcast reception built into the tuner is kind
of nice. We listened to a few episodes of 99% Invisible. Oh nice. Thank you for the suggestion.
Yeah, what did you think? It's a good show. I actually liked the last show, my favorite
shows are the last two because they're little mini episodes. Yeah. And they had the episode
about this soccer stadium in this country in South America right on the equator and the
mid-field line is right on the equator. So it's like North versus South.
I think it's pretty cool. Little things like that I think are fascinating.
They have a couple hundred and so there's a lot of their past episodes that I haven't listened to yet.
Speaking of soccer, I was listening to the latest episode of Total Soccer Show last night
and they interviewed this guy who is basically a soccer data scientist. Cool.
And it was really cool. He's just like a total math geek but totally knows everything about the game
and he was talking about the stat called expected goals. And it's interesting. They take
all the shots and basically it's the odds of that shot going in. Like if you're 60 yards out,
it may be as high as like a 50% rate. Maybe the highest give you a 60% rate of going in.
But from farther out. 60 yards out? No, I said from six yards out. Oh, six yards out. Yeah,
if you shoot from 25 yards out, maybe you have about 5% just due to angles and everything.
They've calculated like every location on the field. Take a shot from there. It has this
percent chance of going, of beating the keeper and going in the net. And then
they've done models of thousands and thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of shots.
And as you do with these things, you train them, you use the data to train the model and
it's pretty accurate now. So they can look at it. They can, it's just very interesting. I never
really knew what the stat meant, but like if you're arsenal and you take 16 shots and
if you add up, if you add up all the percentages of the shots you took,
it gives you an expected goal number of maybe it's like 2.5. Is that per game? No, it's like
during that game, like in the shots you took, you should have scored two and a half goals.
Not that you can score a half goal, but you're a statistician, you get it. And then
it can tell you things about, are you finish rate of the striker or that should roughly match up.
Sure. So you have to shoot the score, of course. One thing I always say,
I coached a team a few years ago and then on my teams I was playing forever and ever and ever.
I always said you have to shoot the score. Sometimes I go, I want a little better shot.
I want a little better shot. And you dribble around a little bit, but you get the shots off
and then maybe only 10% shot. But if you take, this is true if you've played hockey or soccer,
you know this. If you only, if you take a shot that has a 10% chance of scoring,
if you shoot a lot of those, eventually one's going to go in. Right. And then they have higher percentage
shots. So just, and also there's one thing you learn playing soccer is you want to shoot a lot
because you want to get the goalkeeper tired. Sure. It makes it easier to score later. You don't want
the guy just to stand around, not to do anything until you finally shoot at him. Stephon Fry in the
105th minute with the save of the century. Did you watch the final? No, you suck. So does,
do you know if their model accounts for, uh, where in the game in terms of the time? No,
it's shots being taken. I do not think it does. Uh, I think that maybe just adds too much
variability. I'm not sure. Oh, I'm sure it does. I mean, um, most teams have multiple keepers,
right? How often do keepers stay in the whole game? Uh, every game almost all the time,
every game, all the past. And we're back. We took a little break there because basically because
your host Allen, the A of AB testing is a little bit of a dipshit.
And what that means in human speak is that, uh, we recorded the first part of the podcast off of
my PC laptop microphone. I'll do some blending and sound magic later. And maybe you won't notice,
but maybe you're also deaf. I don't know, but we're back on real microphones. And we were just
talking about the fact that the keeper in less of an injury is never ever subbed in soccer. You
only allowed three substitutions a game. Oh really? Yeah, total. Okay. So they, and you can't like
sub out and go back in new information for brain salty gunner. He knows this stuff. So
they're likely to sub in and out their strikers that I would presume. Well, in and out, like whoever
is the most tired, usually it's a, it depends, uh, often not the defenders, the defenders,
sometimes the wings will run more, but it's the midfield players and the strikers that run
and sprint a lot and make you a little tired. Uh, gotcha. So, and maybe for an injury,
you have to sub someone out too. It was good to save one. The only time I've ever seen a
goalkeeper substitution is you may have a situation where you're getting towards the end of an over
time game. You're about to go into penalty shots and you have a sub left. I've only seen this like
a few times ever, but the only time I recall ever seeing a goal, a goalkeeper substituted,
except for an injury was when the backup keeper is like this rock star or much better
at saving penalty kicks. Sure. And they'll bring him in because they think they're going to have
penalty kicks. They want to bring in the better. I think I've seen that at, um, either the last
Olympics or the, the thing in Brazil that we just had world cup just had two years ago. Yeah.
Could be. I've seen it. I've seen it at least once where they switched out the keepers,
but I don't remember enough. Was a tournament a while back now. I can't remember which one
it was or what it is. We're, um, if there's extra time. So if there's a, if it's a, in soccer,
as I educate Brent, the three already know this in, in soccer football, the beautiful game.
If, if it's a game that means something where there has to be a winner, normally if there's,
if it's a, like a league game, it was tied at the end, it's a tie. But if it's a game where
there must be a winner, they'll play after the end of 90 minutes, they'll play an extra two,
15 minute halves. They call extra time, at least in the States, they call it extra time.
Uh, and at the end of that, then I'll go to shootout, right? What I have said, I forget which
tournament I saw this in, or if it was just a very vivid dream, but I do recall, uh, some
tournament where if it went to extra time, they're allowed one extra sub through a lot of fourths
sub during the extra time, which I think is a really good idea. I think the, uh, the, the rule
was a little bit, it's a little bit too strict. You end up with dead people at the end of 120
minutes. In fact, I don't know the stats on this and we are welcome to way off in tangent.
I don't know the stats, but I, I would bet that, uh, both the rate of loss in the game following
an extra time game for teams is very high. I think they lose at a higher rate because
they're just beat that extra 30 minutes takes a lot out of you. How far, how spaced are games?
Usually a week apart. Oh, I would guess that that wouldn't have that much of an impact.
I don't know if you, if you ran, um, if you sprinted like 12 miles and, and kicked in the
shin in the face for two hours, would you feel like ready to do it again a week later?
Certainly wouldn't feel like doing it on Wednesday, but you've ran, uh, marathons and many marathons.
Yeah. And, uh, I wouldn't have won a run one a week later, but I'm old. So I think maybe
that would also, now I'm, I'm all geeking out on the stats. I bet it would also depend on the
age of the team. If the average age of the team was like 24, probably wouldn't make a
bunch of difference. If the average age of the team was 34, maybe a lot more difference.
Is there a team where the average age is 34? Well, my rec team.
Okay. I'll repeat my question. Is there a team? All right.
Screw you guys. Do we have any topics covered today? Are we done?
Uh, yeah, we're good. So I'm Brad. No. Um, well, we have, uh, items up on our, uh,
yeah, quit babbling. Can bend board. Shall we cover them? We may as well. We already covered
it's episode 52. Thank you for listening this far. I don't know why, but thank you. I mean,
I know why I'm thanking you. I don't know why you're listening. So a little bit of big news,
maybe big news. Think it's big news, Brent. It's big news could be epic. It's definitely going to
have a, we, we suspect that we'll have some impact to the podcast. Probably not much.
We hope not. We hope not. So, um, there's a change to AB testing where one of the members
of AB testing has decided after 22 years that his time at Microsoft is over.
Yes. Sadly, uh, we'll have to change how AB testing is communicated. It'll no longer be
the podcast with those Microsoft guys. True, true, true. And all potential ideas of there ever being
a second edition of how we test Microsoft, how we test software at Microsoft are done
because I, as of next Friday, no longer work at Microsoft. So, uh, yeah. So actually,
I don't know when we'll release this episode, but let's presume it'll happen before you leave.
It will. It will. That's the plan is I think I will, uh, Simul release this podcast,
maybe this podcast, and then I'll do a nice farewell blog post shortly after probably
mid next week is the release date. And so presumably your team all knows already
my team all knows I have, uh, did any of your team listen? Did they even know? No,
but one of my, one of my employees just started following me on Twitter. So he'll see the post of
the podcast. Gotcha. And he follows me on LinkedIn. So he'll see the post of the podcast there,
but I don't know. He's actually listened. It's quite blessed the fortitude of the three,
but it's quite an endeavor to get through an episode of AB testing
because sometimes we get like 15 minutes into the podcast. We haven't really said anything yet.
Or yeah.
Rhetorically. Um, all right. So let me pepper you with questions.
So let me, uh, I guess so. Go ahead. You start. Uh, so where are you going?
Not even any four plays go right, right to the right. Like the, give me,
give me the money shot. Alan. Okay.
Gonna go right there. So what led you to this decision?
This would be a better way to lead up to this. So I have been, and as you know,
we haven't talked about this on the air, but as Brent knows, I've toyed with the idea of
trying something besides Microsoft for at least five years. Things come up. I look at them and
either it's a location move. I don't want to do, or it's not the right fit for me or it's not, uh,
frankly, it's not the right, uh, financial situation for me.
And then, uh, a bunch of things fell together. Uh, my wife and I were, we were on this road trip
and yes, the kids were in the back doing screen time and, or they were reading,
we made them get books. Like my son, like this 500 page novel made him read it. He liked it.
Wow. And, and you still have your kids? I think so. Like your kids don't know about DSHS.
My kids are good. Uh, a shout out to my kids. I'm a proud parent today. They were both cast in
the school play this night, a musical. Cool. So I'm excited about that. Except now I have to
listen to them sing around the house for the next four months, but it's all right. There are
worse things. So anyway, wife and I are talking and listening to podcasts, like 99% invisible.
I couldn't get her to listen to total soccer show with me, but we check some other things out and
we're talking in and everyone's talking about like, when you're going to leave Microsoft,
you're going to go. And I thought, well, maybe after this product shift, probably another three
or four years, he goes, why don't you go now? I said, I can't leave now. There's stuff to do.
And like, what? And we'd going back and forth and back and forth. And, uh, as I've told my team,
it's like leaving Microsoft, it was kind of hard, but I'm okay with that. Leaving the Microsoft
teams team, a little hard. It's a cool product. Had a lot of fun there. It's leaving my team of
this team I've grown and built. It's been the hardest. And I was, I'm actually helping to
recruit my replacement to run my team. And I thought this is a rarity of Microsoft. I have
this team that is super well respected across my entire org. They're all really good people.
So good. In fact, you own a doctor retires or quits, he sells his private practice.
People shouldn't interview for my job. I should be able to sell it to them because they have a
ready-made team that rocks. All they have to do is step in and provide a little bit of leadership,
a little bit of management overhead. And they have this sweet gig. That's not fair.
They should have to work for that crap. Yeah. It's a little different, right?
The doctor selling his clientele, essentially. Whatever.
Right? Selling an income stream.
Yeah. Okay. So where was I? Oh, so it kind of came to the conclusion because I've had,
I always have something sort of tickling. Like I could approach this and coinciding with this
conversation. I was talking to a company that I've talked to them off and on for at least a year.
I've known people there. I really admire what they do. In my sort of investigation to whether like,
I don't know, maybe there's dark closets that sit there. I exhaustively googled the crap out of
like this company and glass door and looking for dark skeletons in their closet. And I could find
none. All I could find was people that loved this company and said, good things about it. I said,
hey, I've seen them at conferences. They're great. Hell, hey, their user community is fantastic. And
this is great. And I thought, well, gosh, that sounds fun. And also, they're about a 3,000 person
company. So when I started at Microsoft, we were a much smaller company then, about 14,000.
And now we're more than 10 times that big. Yep. Way more.
I don't know. Anyway, somewhere in there. Yeah. So anyway, we talked and as the stars align,
by the time we got back home, it's like, holy crap, I'm quitting Microsoft. And I'm going to
take a job as a director of quality at Unity 3D. Going back into management.
I've been managing for the last year. Going back to writing reviews.
I've been writing reviews for the last year. I just finished eight connects.
Did you? Okay. So anyway, if you're not familiar with Unity, and a lot of our listeners are,
because I know we have a couple listeners in the game industry, Unity 3D is a cross-platform game
authoring platform used for practically every mobile game in the world. Not all of them,
but Pokemon Go is a good example of something recently done using Unity.
Even some Xbox games. Not even. There are some Xbox games.
There's a lot of them. Yeah. So I'm excited. And they've acquired
a couple interesting things happened in the last year. I talked to them a year ago. I was totally
interested then, but the job just had too much travel for me to pull off. It was like 60% travel.
That's a lot. Yeah. So, but I liked the company and stayed in touch. And some interesting things
happened over the last year. The big thing is that they acquired two big things. Big thing number
one, they acquired four service companies and integrated them into Unity. Cloud Build, ads,
very important. This is embarrassing that I'm pausing. When I say Cloud Build, ads, multiplayer.
You guys are working on Xbox. That can be a pain in the butt. And telemetry.
And these are not like things that, of course, things that they use themselves, but as a game,
as a Unity developer, a developer using the Unity platform, you can integrate any of these services
into the app you're building. Yes. And they should. Absolutely. They may not need multiplayer,
but they may. They may not. But they may. No, I was thinking about a colleague of ours,
Jimbo. And the amazing things I've seen in terms of how telemetry drove game development.
If Jimbo was a data scientist, I could only dream what sort of things he would have
done in the show Intellivance in the last few years.
So, the big thing on the services side is that they need someone to come in and corral their
testing quality. And with me, it's not just testing and test execution. It's around
what's the quality strategy, what's the integration with development team, what's
all up quality. But they also need a lot of consolidation. Imagine if you acquire four
companies, you have four sets of methodologies, four sets of tools.
And most importantly, you said they acquired four companies. So five distinct cultures.
That's going to be the biggest challenge.
And they've had these for a while, but my job is to come in. And again, I haven't even been
there a day yet. I don't start until February, basically, as I understand it. And I know very
as much as anyone would know when they haven't started a job yet, my job is to go and figure
out quality strategy for those things, how do they work together, how do they build that
same culture, how do you get some consolidation among those things, which are all things I think
I'm very good at. So we'll find out. Yeah. And I always thought that
my kids are in sixth and seventh grade. My thought was after they finish high school,
my thought has been for years that I would do some consulting. And I've always thought it would
be better to I would be better as a consultant to have someone besides Microsoft and Mideast off
22 years ago on my resume. So I thought it was a good time to change and get at least one other
company under my resume into my backlog and show that I can do what Alan does some place
besides Microsoft. So are you viewing this? So let's think through sort of the pros and cons list,
like questions that I would have is would been your Microsoft team. How may they have sweetened
the pot such that you would have changed your decision? Remind me to get back to big
thing number two and ever got to. That's a good question. Yeah. When I and I'll be honest here
and some unity folks may hear this or Microsoft people, but when I was seriously considering unity,
I thought, well, this is a sweet enough deal that maybe I'll just tell Microsoft about this.
Which I did. I told my boss and gave him the offer details. And I thought this would be good
because maybe I'll get a little retention money or something. Or maybe it's a thought like it was
a monetary thing at the time. But I'll get a little bit of money from my car. I use this to
look some more money out of Microsoft. They got deep pockets. But after as soon as I told him
and started the ball rolling of me thinking of actually leaving, I didn't care about the money
anymore. I didn't want the pot sweetened for me and Brett and I have both made fun of Microsoft
a little bit in the past, maybe quite a bit. But it's it's been a fun company to work at.
And it's been great to see the changes they made, especially in the last few years.
But they're just not a company moving at a pace that can keep up with me. At least in the
groups that I've been in. It's and in my and I'll put this out there bluntly. And I would tell
everyone from Satya down to my lowest level direct report this.
I think that Microsoft is bogged down by too many people in who have been here 20 years in
these leadership positions that don't know what to do with. I was talking to someone in Windows
yesterday and it was interesting to hear him. We got off on this tangent as we do when you
talk with someone like me. And he talked about how that org was doing a bunch of reorgs
and they had hundreds of managers. They don't know what to do with.
Because they've been managers for a long time and they're not. They can't be ICs anymore.
So what they what they do is they create this massive org structure of of a director with
three managers and each of them have three managers reporting to them and those three
managers have three leads each those three leads have three ICs. And they're doing that
because they're afraid to get those people to either learn to be an IC or move on or do something
else with them. So we have all this overhead and this baggage at the company. And when does
this the worst example. It's human nature. And that's those things that happen when you have a
company with 40,000 engineers and 150,000 people. But with that baggage you can't move quickly.
I think as as one of those managers who have been at the company for the last 20 years.
But the different I'm going to preface that by saying the differences with you is that
you actually pay attention to the world. There are half conservatively half of our
senior principal plus managers at Microsoft have paid no attention to anything but Microsoft
and there you you could get a job anywhere in the industry if you wanted no problem at your equal
or more pay. I would say half or more of our principal plus managers cannot. Yeah. And I say
are now by the time we publish this it will be there. The way you see me lay into Microsoft
after I leave. Yeah. Damn Windows 10 piece of crap. Actually I would say that now. Never mind.
Yeah don't get me fired down. Oh while I while I could get a job other places
right now I'm in the the best job I've ever had. And but anyway. And that's great.
And I was learning what I wanted to say. You know you know that you are different than the other.
I do. The way I would phrase it is that there is a glut of high paid leadership of this company
that are on defense. Absolutely not it on offense. It it burns who I am. I think I've mentioned this
before on the podcast. Shot time. I did my Myers Briggs test like the long form test
years and years ago and it's like a horoscope a little bit. But it does describe who I am enough
as long as you take those tests with a grain of salt. I like them. But one thing I liked about my
type INTP says that I abhor inefficiency and I do. That's my type as well. And so when I see
these things they just grind at who I am when I see inefficiencies it burns at me. I want to be
efficient. So I wrote a blog. I hate waste. I wrote a good a good practitioner of lean
is that I despise waste. I want to grind it up and destroy it. Yes I hate waste as well but
productivity and efficiency are different things and I actually look at this from a
productivity point of view. I'm like oh my god that guy who is busily trying to keep alive 1996
development practices gets paid the same amount as three new college hires who I could eke out
right now two times their ROI of what they cost from their salary versus this one guy
who is probably not producing ROI. And if you look at the partner level guys it's
5x. Yeah there's a phenomenon every time nowadays and I think it's human nature. I think
you've probably done this the last three partner announces you've read. You've sort of done your
own judgment of okay is the company getting ROI out of this. Is this the right call. And for me
the last three that I've noticed absolutely not. It was it was political. Same with me.
Also to be fair classifying it as political is is easy to do because there's a lot of the details
a lot of the facts that I'm not observing and different business leaders the people making the
call to promote the person to partner. They have a right to run the business as they see fit.
And if that's the style that they think is the right ROI great. This is one of the things that
pushes me further into data science because they're just like that's all subjective intuition crap.
We can do better than this going back to so there was nothing that could have sweetened the pot.
Like you said money wasn't the issue. Money wasn't the issue then I realized. Which we know
from pink and other sources right. Once you get to once you get to a certain level
with money where you're you're you're able to block the fear threshold right. Hey I make enough
money that if I got fired I wouldn't be scared. It wouldn't be necessarily life of death thing.
Then your motivation shifts to something entirely different. Right and Microsoft has no way of
offering me the agility and lowercase a agility and freedom I have in freedom is the wrong word
agility and maybe even growth that I can get at a company like unity. There was a period of time
and I know one of the reasons why I'm very happy where I'm at right now.
There was a period of time where I changed teams and felt like every time I change teams I was
thinking I was moving towards the future but I was moving further in the past. I would join that team
and then I'd find out oh my god these guys are executing in 2002 style and I would change teams
and find out the next team oh my god this is 1998 what the hell. Right and so. Tired of solving the
same problems again and again. Not only that but going further back right. Whereas
unity is a smaller company right. Yeah you're gonna have you're gonna have some interesting
challenges I can't wait. It's gonna be new fodder for the podcast so that'll be all good.
And I've already cleared it that it's totally okay. I think the quote from my new boss was
as long as I'm not throwing anyone under the bus by name it's all game very open company.
So you can throw them under the bus by title. Maybe I don't know. Like my boss. Well I don't
know. I had some good long talks with a few of their VPs and they seem seems like a good company.
I'm excited. Should be fun. But no Microsoft it just once I got past the money thing it's like
oh my god why am I staying here anymore. It was time for me to move and which is crazy. I've
been here a long time. A little bit of golden handcuffs in place. I will lose some money
changing but I it was freeing to finally make it was like hard. I'm like turmoil. I can't sleep
at night to make the choice. Once I finally decided it's like oh that was easy. Now that I
once I made the choice in my in my mind. It's like oh it's just once you make the choice.
I want to do this once you make the choice. It's all about execution. It was a tipping point.
Like once I finally said okay I'm gonna quit. It's like it's like oh I like the blood pressure
drops and like oh yeah right on. Right. So those moments you almost hope your current team
doesn't sweeten the pot because it's a big like rite of passage. I got through the decision
now moving forward. Like I so continuous deployment. How does Unity feel about that.
Why don't you ask me in a couple weeks. Okay. Oh I would have thought. I don't know.
Because I based on my view of somewhat of what's been driving you nuts on the current team.
This is my view not Alan's. It has been essentially trying to drag the relative horses to the fresh
clean water of agile. No that's not even what's that's not even it because we're actually on that
path. Our services are speaking as Microsoft employee. Our team services are well on their
way to being continuous deployment. And I imagine they'll get to continuous deployment in the next
few months. And the front end is we just almost whacked build time in half in an effort to try
and make CD more possible there. So definitely the path we're going on. Nobody's against it.
My current team that's their current goal is to get to continuous deployment. So all that will
happen with or without me. By the way you two are on a doing a world tour playing the Joshua
Tree. No like a flashback to college for me. Right. That's how old I am. Okay. The kids today go
oh you two they're an oldies band right. So anyway I said with or without you. Oh gotcha.
So that that was the segue there. Keep up keep up. So that's not it at all. It was more abstract
than normal. It was really the weight of it's kind of talked about before I've been frustrated
with Microsoft for a while that the weight of middle management slows the company down
and there's not a strong desire to either move those people out or to get them to change.
It's like oh it's good enough for moving faster. It's like when say you wanted to get to
say you have a four hour build and you want to get it to two hours and some managers we got to
get to two hours and you get there and they're happy with that. I'm not happy with that. I want
to get it to 10 minutes. I want to keep going. And that's the same thing with Microsoft's change.
We like like we were changing in about a mile an hour and Satya full props to the man comes in
and Microsoft is now moving at 10 miles an hour making a nice wide sweeping turn. I want to do
60 mile an hour slalom. Yeah. So Microsoft in general that's not going to happen here ever.
Microsoft in general is like that. Like again on my current team I am working on the future.
I feel it every single day. I feel like once we're done with this podcast I got to go upstairs.
I'm working on ML that I know no one has ever done before and is critical to the business
and it's just fun as crap. Yeah I'm not telling you to leave. Oh no no and I'm just saying
for me feeling like I'm building the future versus building the foundation towards building
the future is a critical. You want to have the three P's. You want to have people you like
working with a person you like looking for working for and a project you like working on.
You love your project. Sounds like you have a great team. I know your manager. I had a great
project. The people were the people in the person were fine but it I mean nothing against
them other than they I had to drag them too much maybe but that wasn't why I quit. I quit because
it was time for me to do something new. All the pieces fell together which I get the big thing
number two which is I talked about the services and needed somebody. Well hey I can do it. I'm
raising my hand here for those not on the video stream. And then there is one other little twist
is travel much less stuff to travel. It's about one week total out of every five or six weeks.
Mostly day trips San Francisco where the main offices with a few longer trips to other spots
around the world where these services are located. But the big thing is as I was talking to them
they said oh yeah and we also in the last year we opened the Seattle office. I said hey what.
And in my head I immediately go OK I know where the parking right is next to my house. I can take
the bus. It'll be fun to take the bus to work. I said and while I'm thinking that I said so
where's your Seattle office. I'm thinking to my head what. Well I have to transfer buses. What do
I go. And they go oh it's in Bellevue. This is what you say when you're not from Washington.
The Seattle office is in Bellevue. So I say we're in Bellevue. It turns out the Bellevue
office of unity is about six blocks from where I currently work. Sweet. Is it in building. Yeah.
OK. So I my commute gets is basically the same as shorter by about a minute and a half each way.
I can meet my old team halfway. We can plenty of restaurants around. We can
bring. I'm barely moving at all. It's kind of funny. So I'm excited. Pretty sweet. That kind of like OK.
Don't have to move. Financial is fine. New project new fun. I'm going to do this. So that's all the
pieces fell into place and I'm excited and happy. So I am going to my last day at Microsoft is
January 20th. I'm going to take a week off and ski every day and hang out and clean up my
office at home. I think I'm going to build a new gaming PC at home while I'm during that week off.
I just did that. It is the fastest thing I did all SSD rated. I mean it's the
cost me about three grand. I wasn't going to spend that much. I have I have a nice quiet
and tech box already. I'm going to put a new motherboard and a nice fast I7.
Which CPU did you get with CPU. Yeah. I 7 something I don't remember. I can I can send
you the specs. The windows installed into in including to get into the high screen.
10 minutes like the you rated SSD. I rated SSDs. That's like massive geek fast. Yeah. Well so
I think you know this before but I spent time as a middle manager in the storage group.
So perfectly comfortable with with raid. You want to do raid striping for the
if you want to go on the cheap right. Otherwise if you want to do like the full blown thing where
you have performance and redundancy because SSDs aren't known. There were some reliability
that mechanical drives. But I was all about performance right. And it's just awesome.
Although it and about a month from now because you at your feet to the the speed of the system
pretty quickly. About a month from now I'm pretty sure I'll get God damn it. This thing is so friggin
slow anyway. So anyway I'm one thing I on that though if you're about to do that. Have you heard
about the the M2 drives. Nowhere to the M2 drive. I didn't even know these thing existed except
when I was shopping because I always do a Frankenstein machine. Yeah. That's it. I have
an old case. So for at this point I have my machine now and I have my old machine which is
a super nice case until there's some like super big advancement in quiet cases because I always
try to build as quiet a PC as I can. I will just alternate my new PCs between these cases and
upgrade the older older ones. So an M2 is a is a drive but it's a chip that plugs directly to
your motherboard. So it looks like a memory module but it's a drive and it's for those who can't see
the video. I'm making a rectangular symbol like a memory chip on a motherboard. Right. You plug it
directly in. I have a 500 gig version of these. That's where I installed my OS partition. So it
doesn't go through the SATA interface. It's directly on the bus. Do you connect them to one
of the RAM slots? No it's got its own slot. So I have to get a special motherboard that has a
special slot for this. Yes. Noted. Okay. All right. And I can send you I can say again I can send you my
stuff. I'm looking at them right now. They look just like a RAM chip. So I need to make sure I get a
motherboard that has one of those. I should get one of those. It is cool. All right. Let's go back
to the regularly scheduled podcast. Okay. So where we leave off. I'm leaving Microsoft going to
Unity. I gave some reasons why they're in Bellevue. I'm not moving which means that Brent and I can
still continue to meet here in Redmond to record the A.B. podcast. Continue. Yeah. So we got a few
minutes left. How about we wind this up to something more wisdom giving. Have you noticed
have you noticed a pattern for you. I'll give you some wisdom right now. Thanks.
About how and when to change jobs. So like from my experience there is a right way and a wrong way to
to do that. Two bits of advice that I given so many times in the past that I gave myself.
One I just gave the three piece people person in the project make sure there are things you want
to do. The other bit of advice is always go to a job never from a job for sure. So I didn't
want to just like and I get my job is great. I totally could have stayed and had fun and done
well at Microsoft in my current job just with things kind of wait out and it was a job that was
better for me and oftentimes for the last 22 years I've done that by moving jobs at Microsoft.
When I moved to this team I worked on that stupid science project to make Android apps run
on Windows phone and I knew it would never ship and we had done all the work for this product that
would never ship and it worked and I was bored. I don't know if anyone has ever been on a job
where they're bored but I'm sure some actually many people have but I know none of the three have
because they're smart people who like learning and when you're bored you're not learning.
I left that job for that reason. I think the reason you leave a job is different all the time
but for me it's where is my fastest path of learning and growth. That's the thing I want
to look for in a job. That's what I feel stagnated at all whether it's it could just be about technical
learning or leadership learning or if I am not if I can find a faster path to grow and learn
I'm going to go do that. It's aligned like with my two big pieces of advice when it's
on when it's time to think about changing jobs. Absolutely the reasons for the new job better
overpower the reasons why you're leaving the last job. Yeah right there are always every time we make
a change there's always reasons why you're going and reasons why you're leaving but you are
you're better suited to make sure the reasons why you're going to the new company a new team
whatever is more important to you than the reasons why you're leaving which is not to say though
sometimes you just got to leave right and certainly that should be a motivation for you to
find the best of available offers but there's been a practice that that I've done for several
years. First and foremost your team has a right your team leadership has a right to run the business
as they see fit they're accountable for it they're the ones making the decisions and they have to
live and die based off of those decisions. Now so if your business leadership and your
decision making process don't align right well you have two choices you leave or you try to
influence the business leaders decisions right and I generally tend to go towards
that latter but if I don't like how way things are executing now I try to influence it. Yeah
and to be clear that's not you know that no that doesn't play into why I'm leaving. No it's not but
I get that you can I'm trying to give generic advice on so the way I get that advice is uh
if you're unsatisfied with your job you can change your manager or you can change your manager
or you can change your job. That was the second one. You said change your manager or change your
manager. Right right right. Well you can keep your manager. Welcome to the Allen world of
quotes you have to think about for a minute you can change your manager by managing them up and
getting them to change how they think about things or you can change your manager by getting a
different manager. Gotcha. The fact that I have to explain this just bug is one of the it's
why I'm quitting damn it. I've had a joke over the last week just the last couple days on my team
now where I'm in meetings and some it's something will happen like some weird comment or somebody
says and we're not sure why this life side issue happened or whatever they go I go that's why I'm
quitting. No that's why no that's why. My own little personal short-lived meme. Yeah so on on that one
like I am attracted to broken things. I love me yeah I love fixing stuff. I'm best with broken things.
Yes and I'm creative and I'm persistent and so one of the things that hits me hard
is when I when I try to fix something and it fails I'm very
agile at coming up with a new approach and going after that and I could until I had learned this
strategy I would do that ad infinitum. All right get up go back again okay. But when I learned a
little bit around more this is about 10 years ago about how you run a business and how you execute
on a business and and how I play into that business. I learned some things you just can't
fix like they have a right to run the business as they see fit and if there are a strong
principle that they believe is critical and you realize that what you're trying to change is this
important belief of theirs you're probably not going to succeed unless you can come up with
to prove it. So I have a policy I call it this three strikes and I'm out where I will
take a big risk try to influence this change in a big way and if that fails in a way that has
severe consequences on me that will be a strike one. It sounds like strike one two and three to me
but go on. No for me so and I have a whole practice on the three strikes and I'm out rule
right well on strike one I tell my boss that hey this is strike one strike two I don't necessarily
do that and strike three you you learn about strike three because I I tell you that I'm I've
accepted a new offer and quite honestly that that was what executed my last job change. It was was
not necessarily what I prefer because I'm also I view myself as sort of a technical mercenary.
I will consider any offer at any time all right I constantly will look be looking for
what is a better offer. You should change your job title on LinkedIn the technical mercenary.
Okay just saying go on technical mercenary manager man yeah whatever. But it my evaluation
of a better offer is inclusive like money is part of it whether or not I'm going to be
working towards the future or helping lay a foundation for the future as we just discussed.
What am I going to learn is critical. How how am I going to be able to apply those learnings.
Like when I started my current job which now I've been in almost two years right they were
building a brand new data science team. I had just started my degree. I was looking for a place
to apply this this skill set and they took a big risk and I've gotten promoted once in that time
frame and I think it's mutual now that hey they made a good decision and I made a good decision.
We should always take risks always put yourself on the steepest learning curve.
Another bit of advice. Not the steepest the steepest achievable. Sure sure like
you can you can hurt yourself by going after a stretch goal that is not within your grasp.
Sure now you and I at our experience level there's there's realistically there's not too many of those
that we couldn't achieve with the timelines that we're expected to achieve them in.
Perhaps perhaps right but all right we can continue that next time. Yeah we gotta get going. Okay so
we'll we'll chat again I'll probably be at unity maybe we'll chat again just before I start there
I'm not sure but big news and I guess that's it we'll see in episode 53. Yeah congratulations
by the way thank you I'm Alan I'm Brent and we'll see you next time on A-B testing.